Second Climacs is an Emacs-like editor written entirely in
Common Lisp.  It is called Second Climacs because it is a complete
rewrite of the Climacs text editor.

Climacs gave us some significant experience with writing a text
editor, and we think we can improve on a number of aspects of it.  As
a result, there are some major differences between Climacs and
Second Climacs:

  * We implemented a better buffer representation, and extracted it
    from the editor code into a separate library named Cluffer.  The
    new buffer representation will have better performance, especially
    on large buffers, and it will make it easier to write
    sophisticated parsers for buffer contents.

  * The incremental parser for Common Lisp syntax of Climacs is very
    hard to maintain, and while it is better than that of Emacs, it is
    still not good enough.  Second Climacs uses a modified version of
    the Common Lisp reader in order to parse buffer contents, making
    it much closer to the way the contents is read by the Common Lisp
    compiler.

  * Climacs depends on McCLIM for its graphic user interface.  Second
    Climacs is independent of any particular library for making
    graphic user interfaces, allowing it to be configured with
    different such libraries.

Currently, Second Climacs is not in a complete enough state to be
executed.  We are working on several aspects of it:

  * We are writing a special output history class for McCLIM that will
    be adapted for use with Second Climacs.  We have a working version
    using the Flexichain library, but we want an implementation that
    uses Splay trees.

  * We are working on a special version of the Common Lisp READ
    function that will be adapted so that it can read invalid buffer
    contents such as unmatched parentheses and symbols with package
    prefixes naming packages that do not exist.

  * We are designing an structure for representing Common Lisp code
    that can be incrementally updated as buffer contents changes.

The immediate next step is to make it possible to execute Second
Climacs with something that resembles "Fundamental mode" in Emacs,
i.e., with no particular syntax analysis, and only very basic
commands.  This step requires a design for representing commands.  It
is not a particularly difficult design, but we might as well give it
some thought in order to get it right.

Repositories:

  Second Climacs: https://github.com/robert-strandh/Second-Climacs

  Cluffer: https://github.com/robert-strandh/Cluffer

  McCLIM: https://github.com/robert-strandh/McCLIM
